blog: frontend asset passthrough (#924)
lyft/clutch: docs/blog/2021-01-19-frontend-asset-passthrough.md

---
title: Frontend Asset Passthrough
authors:
  - name: Mike Cutalo
    url: https://github.com/mcutalo88
    avatar: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/2250844?s=460&u=24deb32096e9f892cc91a6ff1ca1af50193b1fbd&v=4
description: Frontend Asset Passthrough

> image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4712430/104760766-7a2c5980-5727-11eb-93f5-3296b23ba3a0.png

Reviewer: needs update

Author: Actually what is this for? the link preview?

Author: Ill use my envoy + clutch diagram

Reviewer: yeah if it's posted to social, e.g. twitter i think it's the link preview

hide_table_of_contents: false
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

Ever wonder how Clutch handles serving frontend assets without a CDN in a distributed multi-version deployment?
This article will touch on how Lyft deploys Clutch and some of the early problems we faced when rolling it out.

<!--truncate-->

> 

Reviewer: would be good to lead with some sort of image so it's not just wall of text on entry

Author: 🤔 🤔 🤔 🤔 🤔 🤔

Author: lmk how it looks with the error image towards the top, that breaks up the text enough i think.

## Problem

> When deploying Clutch at Lyft we noticed very early on when deploying a new version,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When deploying Clutch at Lyft we noticed very early on that when a new version is deployed,
```

> When deploying Clutch at Lyft we noticed very early on when deploying a new version,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During our deploys of Clutch at Lyft we noticed very early on that when a new version is deployed,
```

> a subset of users would fail to load the webpage as some of the frontend assets could not be resolved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a subset of users would fail to load the webpage (only seeing a wall of white) as some of the frontend assets could not be resolved.
```

Reviewer: it would be awesome if we could find the JS/browser console error message that occurs

Reviewer 3: agreed. Looking through our chat the console error was
`Uncaught Syntax Error: Unexpected token '<'`. I can send you a screenshot in a DM if you want to include that.

Author: Yeah nice let me add that

> Clutch bundles all frontend assets into a single binary, which allows us to serve all frontend assets from disk, simplifying our architecture by omitting the need for a CDN.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clutch bundles all frontend assets into a single binary, which allows us to serve them from disk, simplifying our architecture by omitting the need for a CDN.
```

> However, this means that during deploys, particularly when deploying to canary (which at Lyft is a particular subset of the production environment), there will briefly be two different versions of the application taking traffic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, this means that during deploys, particularly when deploying to a canary environment (which at Lyft is a particular subset of the production environment) or multiple availability zones, there will briefly be two different versions of the application taking traffic.
```

> However, this means that during deploys, particularly when deploying to canary (which at Lyft is a particular subset of the production environment),
> there will be an intermediary state in which the frontend assets requested by the user may not exist on the hosts serving that request while the rollout is still progressing, since during deploys, there will briefly exist two different versions of the application taking traffic.

Reviewer 4: sentence is a bit long, could be 2 sentences
```suggestion
However, this means that during deploys, particularly when deploying to canary (which at Lyft is a particular subset of the production environment), there will briefly be two different versions of the application taking traffic.
In this intermediary state, the frontend assets requested by the user may not yet exist on the hosts serving that request while the rollout is progressing.
```

> Typically, organizations solve this problem by simply adding a CDN to their service architecture and serve static assets from there.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Typically, organizations solve this problem by simply adding a CDN to their service architecture and serving static assets from there.
```

> However, we decided to go a different route, as the Clutch architecture and design philosophy values simplicity and avoiding adding new dependencies unless absolutely necessary. This simplicity is core to Clutch's values as we want to keep Clutch easy to deploy and configure and cloud provider agnostic, with as few external dependencies as possible.

Reviewer 4: thought it was a lil repetitive to mention simplicity again but could just be me
```suggestion
However, we decided to go a different route, as the Clutch architecture and design philosophy values simplicity and avoiding adding new dependencies unless absolutely necessary. We want to keep Clutch easy to deploy,  configure, and cloud provider agnostic, with as few external dependencies as possible.
```

Reviewer: still reads a bit weird, "We want to keep Clutch easy to ... cloud provider agnostic"

Reviewer 3: Yeah I think this is also supposed to be `We want to keep Clutch easy to deploy and configure, and cloud provider agnostic, ...`

Author: Added in some of the suggestions lmk.

## Solution

This leads us to our solution, which we call Frontend Asset Passthrough.
How this works is simple: when a request for a static asset does not reside on disk, Clutch will fallback to a configured provider to look for the asset.

> Lets first take a look at the [proto configration](https://github.com/lyft/clutch/blob/890245e7d2a1bf91623a9e74b39f1083dbd5ea2c/api/config/gateway/v1/gateway.proto#L105-L119) and then will go into more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's first take a look at the [proto configuration](https://github.com/lyft/clutch/blob/890245e7d2a1bf91623a9e74b39f1083dbd5ea2c/api/config/gateway/v1/gateway.proto#L105-L119) and then will go into more detail.
```

```protobuf
message Assets {
  message S3Provider {
    string region = 1;
    string bucket = 2;
    string key = 3;
  }

  oneof provider {
    S3Provider s3 = 1;
  }
}
```

> The `assets` configuration resides in the `gateway` configuration.

Reviewer 4: i think it'd be good to mention that this resides in the clutch-config

> At Lyft we utilize AWS S3 as the provider of choice and have implemented this setup as an example;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Lyft we utilize AWS S3 as the provider of choice;
```

> At Lyft we utilized AWS S3 as the provider of choice and have implemented this setup as an example,
> however, the Clutch protobuf model is extensible and can easily be extended to add additional providers for any given deployment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
At Lyft we utilize AWS S3 as the provider of choice and have implemented this setup as an example;
however, the Clutch protobuf model is extensible and can easily be extended to add additional providers for any given deployment.
```

For S3 the configuration is simple: specify a `region`, `bucket`, and the `key` where the assets live.
This does require you to also configure the `clutch.service.aws` service,

> which enables Clutch to fetch these assets with S3 API's.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which allows Clutch to fetch these assets with S3 API's.
```

> For S3 the configuration is simple, specify a `region`, `bucket`, and the `key` where the assets live.
> This does require you to also configure the `clutch.service.aws` service,
> which enables Clutch fetch these assets with S3 API's.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For S3 the configuration is simple: specify a `region`, `bucket`, and the `key` where the assets live.
This does require you to also configure the `clutch.service.aws` service,
which enables Clutch to fetch these assets with S3 API's.
```

> which enables Clutch fetch these assets with S3 API's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which enables Clutch fetch these assets with S3 APIs.
```

```yaml
gateway:
  assets:
    s3:
      region: us-east-1
      bucket: static
      key: clutch

services:
  - name: clutch.service.aws
    typed_config:
      "@type": types.google.com/clutch.config.service.aws.v1.Config
      regions:
        - us-east-1
```

With this configured, if a user requests an asset that does not reside on disk the configured passthrough provider will be utilized.
If the provider has the correct asset it will be served to the user.

Let's look at the diagram below to demonstrate this.

> Our user makes a request, it goes through our load balancer, which in Lyft's case is Envoy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A user makes a request, it goes through a load balancer, which in Lyft's case is Envoy.
```

> Envoy is load balancing all versions of Clutch that are currently deployed; in our example we have two Clutch versions deployed `v1` and `v2`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Envoy is load balancing all versions of Clutch that are currently deployed; in this example we have two Clutch versions deployed `v1` and `v2`.
```

> Envoy is load balancing all versions of Clutch that are currently deployed; in our example we have two Clutch versions deployed **v1** and **v2**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Envoy is load balancing all versions of Clutch that are currently deployed. In our example we have two Clutch versions deployed: **v1** and **v2**.
```

Reviewer: also use backticks for version numbers instead of bold

Regardless of which version of the frontend a user might have, all versions of the frontend assets live in S3, so
if a Clutch host does not have what the user is requesting it can simply check S3.

<img alt="Deploying" src={useBaseUrl('img/docs/blog/fe-asset-passthrough-s3-logical.png')} width="75%"/>

## Deploying

Now that we have configured a passthrough asset provider, there is still an additional problem to solve, which will be unique to each Clutch deployment.
This problem, namely, is how exactly the assets end up in the fallback provider in the first place.
As an example, I will go over how we solved this problem at Lyft.

> Below is a simplified version of our deployment process.
> Early on in the deployment pipeline assets are uploaded to S3,
> simply utilizing the aws cli to `aws s3 sync` the new assets to the target bucket.

Reviewer 4: maybe link to the command docs if people are curious?
```suggestion
Below is a simplified version of the Clutch deployment process.
Early on in the deployment pipeline, assets are uploaded to S3,
simply utilizing the AWS CLI to `aws s3 sync` the new assets to the target bucket.
```

> Early on in the deployment pipeline assets are uploaded to S3,
> simply utilizing the aws cli to `aws s3 sync` the new assets to the target bucket.

Reviewer 4: maybe also link to the cli docs if people are curious?
```suggestion
Early on in the deployment pipeline, assets are uploaded to S3 simply utilizing the AWS CLI to `aws s3 sync` the new assets to the target bucket.
```

<img alt="Deploying" src={useBaseUrl('img/docs/blog/fe-asset-passthrough-s3-upload.png')} width="75%"/>

## Conclusion

Through Frontend Asset Passthrough, a distributed Clutch deployment is able to provide a fallback mechanism
when serving frontend assets with minimal configuration and without the additional complexity of a CDN,
ensuring the correct assets are served regardless of the divergence in deployed versions across a Clutch fleet.

## Contributing

> If their is a provider that you need for your deployment, please consider contributing!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a provider that you need for your deployment, please consider contributing!
```

---
title: Deploying Hashed Frontend Builds Without Interruption
authors:
  - name: Mike Cutalo
    url: https://github.com/mcutalo88
    avatar: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/2250844?s=460&u=24deb32096e9f892cc91a6ff1ca1af50193b1fbd&v=4

> description: How Caching and Hashed Frontend Builds Can Lead to a Blank Screen; And How to Fix It.

Reviewer: not a title
```suggestion
description: How caching and hashed frontend builds can lead to a blank screen; and how to fix it.
```

image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2250844/106201558-7956e700-616d-11eb-887d-28410b67d558.png
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

Ever wonder how Clutch handles serving frontend assets without a CDN in a distributed multi-version deployment?
This article will touch on how Lyft deploys Clutch and some of the early problems we faced when rolling it out.

<!--truncate-->

## Problem

During our deploys of Clutch at Lyft we noticed very early on that when a new version is deployed,
a subset of users would fail to load the webpage (only seeing a blank page) as some of the frontend assets could not be resolved.

> <img alt="Unable to Load" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2250844/106201561-79ef7d80-616d-11eb-8453-55769750f7c6.png" />

Author: Yeah once i figure out how to do this ill circle back.

However, during deploys, particularly when deploying to a canary environment or multiple availability zones, there will briefly be two different versions of the application taking traffic.
In this intermediary state, the frontend assets requested by the user may not yet exist on the hosts serving that request while the rollout is progressing.

Typically, organizations solve this problem by adding a CDN to their service architecture and serving static assets from there.
However, we decided to go a different route, as the Clutch architecture and design philosophy values simplicity and avoiding adding new dependencies unless absolutely necessary.
We want to keep Clutch easy to deploy and configure, and cloud provider agnostic, with as few external dependencies as possible.
In addition to the design considerations, not using a CDN does provide other advantages.
While CDNs are inherently public facing, asset passthrough is private, making it easier to secure your deployment.

Before we go through the illustration of the problem below we first need to understand how we build frontend bundles.
Clutch uses webpack as the build system for the frontend,

> when building a new release webpack [templates the output](https://webpack.js.org/guides/caching/#output-filenames) filename to include a content hash eg: `main.[contenthash].chunk.js`.

Author: ```suggestion
when building a new release [webpack templates the output filename](https://webpack.js.org/guides/caching/#output-filenames) to include a content hash eg: `main.[contenthash].chunk.js`.
```

This uniqueness of this content hash allows us to cache bust what the browser has locally allowing the new version to be requested.

<img alt="Problem Diagram" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2250844/106201546-765bf680-616d-11eb-83d3-c70cf93ba252.png" />

The client makes a request to Clutch and a canary host responds with an `index.html` page with a script tag asking for `main.a3762de8.chunk.js`.
Illustrated by the green and red arrows, there is only one host which has the correct asset the client is asking for, the canary.
If the client's request for `main.a3762de8.chunk.js` goes anywhere else the page will fail to load.

> 

Author: tried to keep it brief

    S3Provider s3 = 1;
  }
}
```

The configuration can be found in the [gatewayOptions](/docs/configuration#gatewayoptions).

At Lyft we utilize AWS S3 as the provider of choice and have implemented this setup as an example;
however, the Clutch protobuf model is extensible and can easily be extended to add additional providers for any given deployment.

For S3 the configuration is simple: specify a `region`, `bucket`, and the `key` where the assets live.
This does require you to also configure the `clutch.service.aws` service,
which allows Clutch to fetch these assets via S3 APIs.

```yaml
gateway:
  assets:
    s3:
      region: us-east-1
      bucket: static
      key: clutch

services:
  - name: clutch.service.aws
    typed_config:
      "@type": types.google.com/clutch.config.service.aws.v1.Config
      regions:
        - us-east-1
```

With this configured, if a user requests an asset that does not reside on disk the configured passthrough provider will be utilized.
If the provider has the correct asset it will be served to the user.

Let's look at the diagram below to demonstrate this.
When a user makes a request, it goes through a load balancer, in this example, Envoy.

> Envoy is load balancing all versions of Clutch that are currently deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envoy is load balancing to all instances of Clutch using the round-robin algorithm.
```

This problem, namely, is how exactly the assets end up in the fallback provider in the first place.
As an example, I will go over how we solved this problem at Lyft.

Below is a simplified version of our deployment process.
Early on in the deployment pipeline assets are uploaded to S3,
simply utilizing the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/sync.html) to `aws s3 sync` the new assets to the target bucket.

<img alt="Deploying" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2250844/106201560-7956e700-616d-11eb-9f9d-a4b1345bcf41.png" />

## Conclusion

Through Frontend Asset Passthrough, a distributed Clutch deployment is able to provide a fallback mechanism
when serving frontend assets with minimal configuration and without the additional complexity of a CDN,
ensuring the correct assets are served regardless of the divergence in deployed versions across a Clutch fleet.

## Contributing

If there is a provider that you need for your deployment, please open an [issue](https://github.com/lyft/clutch/issues) or consider [contributing](https://github.com/lyft/clutch#contributing)!

> If you have any questions or would like to chat with the team, join us in our [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/lyftoss/shared_invite/zt-casz6lz4-G7gOx1OhHfeMsZKFe1emSA)!

Reviewer: link to community page of docs instead

Author: sure
